NAME
  EDIT -- the EDIT command

DESCRIPTION
  EDIT [Line number] EDIT the line number.

  If no line number is used this command will edit
  the previous entry typed at the command prompt.
  If a running program has just terminated with an
  error this will automatically edit the line that
  caused the error.

  The Editing keys are:

  Left/right Arrows      Move the cursor within
                         the line
  Home/End               Move the cursor to the
                         start/end of the line
  Delete                 Delete the character
                         under the cursor
  Backspace              Delete the character
                         before the cursor
  Insert                 Switch between insert and
                         overtype mode

  Use Enter (or Return) to finish editing (even in
  insert mode). 

  The line is added to the program just as if it
  had been typed at the command prompt. If the
  line number has been changed a new (edited) copy
  of the line will be added to memory, if it is 
  unchanged the line will replace 'line-number'.
  When editing a program line the up arrow will
  switch to the previous line and down arrow to
  the next line number. When doing this any
  changes will be automatically saved (the same as
  using Enter) before moving to the next line.

  MMBasic is always in edit mode when entering
  data at the command prompt or for the INPUT and
  LINE INPUT commands. In these cases the arrow
  keys can be used to move within the line to
  correct errors. If the Up arrow key is pressed
  at the command prompt it will act the same as
  EDIT with no line number (edit the last error
  line or entered command). Subsequent up/down
  arrow presses will move through the list of
  recent entries. All the editing keys work with
  Tera term and Putty(in vt100 mode) so editing
  can be accomplished over a USB or serial link
  using these terminal emulators or any other
  vt100 compatible terminal emulator. The maximum
  line length that can be edited is 79 chars in
  VGA mode and 49 chars in composite mode. If more
  than this number of characters is entered in
  overtype mode MMBasic will automatically enter
  normal text entry mode without the editing
  functions. If in insert mode any extra
  characters will be rejected.
